README_POST_DC

This readme file is after the synthesis of the Verilog files. It differs slightly from the PRE_DC process in several ways:

1. The output Verilog file, here with a .vh extension is used
2. A Verilog file for the cells in the standard cell library needs to be compiled in as well.
((Note: although mentioned in class the timescale command may not be needed
in the testbench in the new version of Questa after synthesis.
3. The testbench.v file needs an extra definition in the first line exactly
as:  `timescale 1ns/10ps))


Creating a library directory

Questa requires a “library directory” to store information about your project.
In your working directory (where the simulation project .v files are), type

vlib work

This creates a directory called work needed by Questa. If you delete this directory, you will need to create it again before running any compilations.

Compiling Verilog files

Next from the working directory, type

vlog «list of verilog files»

This might look like after Design Compiler synthesis as:

vlog twoP_FSM.vh osu05_stdcells.v testbench.v

This compiles your .v (and synthesized output .vh) files for simulation.
If there were no errors, the compilation should list the modules compiled and
point out the top level modules (ones not included by any other modules).
If the compilation failed with ERR messages, you will need to revise your .v
files to address the complaints and recompile. It is a good practice to also
look for WARN messages and resolve those as well.

Running Questa

To run Questa, from the working directory, type:

vsim «top-level module name»

For example,
vsim twoP_FSM_tb

if twoP_FSM_tb is the top level testbench module in your design. In an X-ready environment, this should bring up the simulator main window.

You will need to right click in the "Objects" block to
"Add -> To Wave -> Signals in Design" to see all waveforms in the wave window.

You can start the simulation by typing in the simulator command window:
run -all

The simulation runs until it encounters a $stop or $finish command in your .v files.

In the Wave window, then you can click on the tab at the bottom that says
"Wave" to bring that window on top. You can right click in the waveform window
to "Zoom Full" or use the slider to navigate the simulation.

In the lower left of the Wave window there are six icons.
On the top row, there is one that that "toggles leaf names." This helps to show
or hide the Verilog sub-cell hierarchy. Also, to the right of that icon,
there is "Grid, Timeline, and Cursor Control" button that pops up a menu.
On the Disply tab of the pop-up menu, you may want to select "Waveform selection
highlighting." This can help you since now clicking on a signal in the Wave
window will not highlight that signal.

JRC 1/31/2023 
