README for Innovus and Magic

Copy your output Verilog .vh from Design Compiler from the ../Synthesis folder.
If you are in this folder, then  cp ../Synthesis/twoP_FSM.vh  twoP_FSM.vh

Here it will be twoP_FSM.vh

Edit the innovus.tcl script file.
Make sure that the name of you verilog file and the top cell name are updated.

Then use the "run" shell script to invoke innovus. That is just type

run

There may be several warnings concerning features not included in our cell library.
These will be saved in a log file. Most can be ignored for our designs.
If there is an error, it may be due to not updating your verilog files
or the requested aggressive cell density 0.9 in the floorplan may be too high.

Innovus will go through several stages to (1) load and initialize the design,
(2) floorplan your design, (3) add power and ground rings, (4) place the design,
(5) route power and ground, (6) add filler cells to rows, (7) detail signal route,
(8) verify design, and (9) create the GDS layout mask file.
More steps could be done for larger designs including timing optimization,
clock tree routing, and also low power modes.

After innovus completes, there will be some comments printed to the screen.
You can then type

win

to see your layout. You can navigate and update you design with the
innovus graphical interface. We used a script to organize the steps.
You can then type exit to quit.


We could also open the design in virtuoso for editing.
However, for now, we will read and import the file into magic.
This will be for irsim and spice simulation to verify the design.
Start magic, but before loading the gds file, click in the layout window
and type the long command

: calma rescale no

Then read the final.gds file from Innovus.

Observe and expand the layout.

Then :extract all
:ext2sim -t!
:ext2spice
:writeall

There may be an "extra" top level cell.
You can quit and not save that if you have your twoP_FSM.mag cell in this example.

Now you can run your irsim and hspice simulations to verifgy.

JRC  updated 01/31/2023
