README_PRE_DC

This readme is for Verilog simulation before synthesis, that is before Design Compiler.
There are two Verilog files here, the basic file for the logic gate and a testbench.v file.


Creating a library directory

Questa requires a “library directory” to store information about your project. In your working directory (where the simulation
project .v files are), type

vlib work

This creates a directory called work needed by Questa. If you delete this directory, you will need to create it again before running any
compilations.

Compiling Verilog files

Next from the working directory, type

vlog «list of verilog files»

This might look like

vlog twoP_FSM.v testbench.v

Or, if all of the .v files are pertinent, just type
vlog *.v
This compiles your .v files for simulation. If there were no errors, the compilation should list the modules compiled and point out the top
level modules (ones not included by any other modules). If the compilation failed with ERR messages, you will need to revise your .v
files to address the complaints and recompile. It is a good practice to also look for WARN messages and resolve those as well.

Running Questa

To run Questa, from the working directory, type:

vsim «top-level module name»

For example,
vsim twoP_FSM_tb

if twoP_FSM_tb is the top level testbench module in your design. In an X-ready environment, this should bring up the simulator main window.

You will need to right click in the "Objects" block to "Add -> To Wave -> Signals in Design" to see all waveforms in the wave window.

You can start the simulation by typing in the simulator command window:
run -all

The simulation will run until it encounters a $stop or $finish command in your .v files.

In the Wave window, then you can click on the tab at the bottom that says "Wave" to bring that window on top. You can right click in the waveform window to "Zoom Full" or use the slider to navigate the simulation.

In the lower left of the Wave window there are six icons. On the top row, there is one that that "toggles leaf names." This helps to show or hide the Verilog sub-cell hierarchy. Also, to the right of that icon, there is "Grid, Timeline, and Cursor Control" button that pops up a menu. On the Disply tab of the pop-up menu, you may want to select "Waveform selection highlighting." This can help you since now clicking on a signal in the Wave window will not highlight that signal.

JRC 1/31/2023
